# Apriori_Algorithm_Implementation_from_Scratch :

# Introduction :
Apriori algorithm is used for finding frequent itemsets in a dataset for boolean association rule. Name of the algorithm is Apriori because it uses prior knowledge of frequent itemset properties. We apply an iterative approach or level-wise search where k-frequent itemsets are used to find k+1 itemsets.
 

# Apriori Algorithm Implementation Steps :
 
Apriori algorithm has a sequence of steps to be followed to find the most frequent itemset in the dataset. The  minimum support threshold is set by the user.
1) In the first iteration of the algorithm, each item is taken as a 1-itemsets candidate. The algorithm will count the occurrences of each item.
2) For the set minimum support value,The set of 1 – itemsets whose occurrence is satisfying the min sup are determined. Only those candidates which count more than or equal to min_sup, are taken ahead for the next iteration and the others are pruned or removed.
3) Next, 2-itemset frequent items with min_sup are discovered. The 2-itemset is generated by forming a group of 2 by combining items with itself.
 
 
4) The 2-itemset candidates are pruned using min-sup threshold value. Now the table will have 2 –itemsets with min-sup only.
5) The next iteration will form 3 –itemsets using the same steps. If all 2-itemset subsets are frequent then the superset will be frequent otherwise it is pruned.
6) Next step will follow making 4-itemset by joining 3-itemset with itself and pruning if its subset does not meet the min_sup criteria. The algorithm is stopped when the most frequent itemset is achieved.
